then Isaac called Jacob and blessed him
and charged him you shall not take a
wife from the daughters of Canaan arise
go to Padan Aram to the house of birth
you'll your mother's father and take
yourself a wife from there of the
daughters of Laban your mother's brother
may God Almighty bless you and make you
fruitful and multiply you that you may
be an assembly of peoples and give you
the blessing of Abraham to you and your
descendants with you that you may
inherit the land in which you are a
stranger which God gave to Abraham so
Isaac sent Jacob away and he went to pay
dan/erin to Laban the son of bethuel the
Syrian the brother of Rebekah the mother
of Jacob and Esau esau saw that Isaac
had blessed Jacob and sent him away to
Paden era to take himself a wife from
there and that as he blessed him he gave
him a charge saying you shall not take a
wife from the daughters of Canaan and
that Jacob had obeyed his father and his
mother and had gone to Padanaram
also Esau saw that the daughters of
Canaan did not please his father Isaac
so Esau went to Ishmael and took Maher
left the daughter of Ishmael Abraham's
son the sister of Nebojsa to be his wife
in addition to the wives he had
now Jacob went out from Beersheba and
went toward Haran so he came to a
certain place and stayed there all night
because the son had saved and he took
one of the stones of that place and put
it at his head and he lay down in that
place to sleep then he dreamed and
behold a ladder was set up on the earth
and it stopped reached to heaven and
there the angels of God were ascending
and descending on it and behold the Lord
stood above it
I am the Lord God of Abraham your father
and the god of Isaac the land on which
you lied I will give to you and your
descendants also your descendants shall
be as the dust of the earth you shall
spread abroad to the west and the east
to the north and the south and in you
and in your seed all the families of the
earth shall be blessed behold I am with
you and will keep you wherever you go
and we'll bring you back to this land
for I will not leave you until I have
done what I have spoken to you
then Jacob awoke from his sleep surely
the Lord is in this place and I did not
know it and he was afraid how awesome is
this place this is none other than the
house of God and this is the gate of
heaven then Jacob rose early in the
morning and took the stone but he had
put at his head said it up as a pillar
and poured oil on top of it and he
called the name of that place Bethel but
the name of that city had been loved
previously then Jacob made a vow if God
will be with me and keep me in this way
that I am going and give me bread to eat
and clothing to put on so that I come
back to my father's house in peace then
the Lord shall be my god and this stone
which I have set as a pillar shall be
God's house and of all that you give me
I will surely give a tenth to you